---
layout: post-wide
hero-bg-color: "#f7f7f7"
categories: project

title:  "Betterfy"
uid:    betterfy
date:   2016-09-11
type:   Mobile
shortdesc: Native Android client for Spotify streaming service. A little bit smarter (better!). Built with Spotify SDK and their proprietary API.

github: https://github.com/sharaquss/Betterfy
opensource: https://github.com/sharaquss/Betterfy
license: MIT
platform: Android

---

<p class="meta">Type: <strong>{{ page.type }}</strong>  |  Platform: <strong>{{page.platform}}</strong>  |  Open Source: <a href="{{page.github}}">GitHub</a>  |  License: <strong>{{ page.license }}</strong></p>

<p><strong>TECH USED: ANDROID NATIVE, ANDROID STUDIO, OPEN SOURCE STUFF ETC ETC ETC</strong></p>

<p>
    Native Android client for Spotify streaming service.
</p>

<p>
    App is targeted for premium Spotify subscribers, who happen to have low-specs Android smartphone (as I did once). That means low performance overhead, quick booting, simplified API connectivity and way more stability.
    It offers unique functionalities, which are only partially implemented in Desktop app and completely not available in mobile client (well, up until August 2016 official Spotify app update, that is ;[), like set of most listened tracks and albums over the course of week, month, year and account lifetime, recommendations and music taste tracking system.   
</p>

<p>
    Application was built using modern approach to developing Android applications.
    Features most commonly used open source libraries in the community, like Square's Butterknife binder, Picasso, Retrofit(v2) HTTP client as well as Realm database, JUnit and Mockito testing suite.
</p>

<p>
    Spotify communication is done via their proprietary set of APIs.
    Some functionalities are implemented using their SDK (like some authentication and authorization elements), but I generally tried to do things from scratch on my own.
</p>
